What I wanna do, and move away from,
I wanna move away from
parent navigation guides,
and look at global navigation guards
instead, so it's similar, but different.
The thing about global navigation guards
is that it checks your routes globally, so
regardless of whether a route is
protected, or not, it checks it.
So it's useful as a way of just
doing a cursory pass to check if
a user should be allowed into an app or
not.
So the other thing to note with
this is that the way in which this
is useful specifically for
protecting your routes is with metadata.
And again,
this is very specific to Vue Router,
even though this is a Vuex course but
this is super useful when to use in your
applications, so it's worth talking about.
In my routes array and specifically in
my route object within my routes array,
I can pass in metadata to my routes.
Which means that I can specify the routes
that I want authentication to be required.
So let's assume that I
looked at the route, so
the admin screen as well
as the inventory screen.
And I want those two
pages specifically and
maybe there are more to have requirement
that a user is authenticated.
So I can add that metadata
into those routes.
And then in my global navigation guards,
I can do this check.
There's a to.match.sum
which checks any metadata,
it allows you to match the metadata
associated on a route.
So here I get access to the route.
I'm grabbing metadata to check whether or
not auth is required.
And auth is required is a true or
false Boolean, so
I can just essentially check
is auth required or not.
So that's really nice.
And then I can also do one other thing,
which is, if auth is required,
which is the check of the metadata,
I can then return next.
And so this is sort of an extra step.
It's not Vuex specific, but it's an extra
layer you can add on to your application.
So let's say you want to check
whether auth is required first,
before checking for the islogthengetter.
You could write the code for this so
it's checks the metadata first
before actually calling the getter.
So you're saving yourself an extra
execution without having to automatically
call getter everywhere.
So here, as I said,
you would import the store and
then you could do
store.getters.["isLoggedIn"], and
then pass the user to wherever
they need to go appropriately.